you
hi there I'm Ellen and in this
innovative crunch workout we combine the
best calorie burning power yoga and the
best core conditioning power Pilates for
an amazing total body blast this is one
of our most popular classes and I
guarantee you're gonna see amazing
results not only will we be burning
calories will also be lengthening
strengthening and defining your entire
body and especially your core my cues
are easy to follow so don't worry if
you're new to yoga or pilates and if
you're an old pro you're gonna love how
we've put these movements together so
bare feet really does work best and
you'll need a mat so let's get ready and
get hardcore
let's bring ourselves to the very center
of our mat put your feet parallel and
make sure they're about hip bone
distance apart really secure on that
floor let's begin with some strong
breathing so inhale your arms up and
exhale your arms down place your hands
to your lower back elbow squeeze towards
each other and we lift our heart up then
release and do that again nice and
strong so the breath is super important
we want to keep breathing strong
throughout this whole workout elbows
together lift your heart up and then
release it down
good let's bend the knees now this time
take it down reach it out
now elbows to behind squeeze those
elbows together lift your heart up
strengthen and lengthen good and release
once again bend those knees down bring
the hands to lower back squeeze those
elbows together lifting up breathing big
and release those arms down great now
let's just take it down enough nice and
strong it's down and up heating the body
warming up those legs getting energy
flowing that's what it's about
take it down take it up four more
hips back keep that back nice and strong
your core is already super engaged nice
now hold it up and bring your arms
halfway down and walk your feet to about
4 feet apart turn your right toes out
and your left toes are parallel to that
side of the mat heart is lifted ribcages
up let's take it to warrior pulse it's
pulse
beautiful now right here make sure your
knees are tracking in line with your toe
and make sure you're keeping that nice
tall of good posture now hold it down
there place your form on your thigh and
reach it up good this is the side angle
posture our abdominals are pulling in we
lengthen and strengthen the torso at the
same time here looks good everybody take
it to that reverse so sliding your left
arm down reaching up your the energy
lifting strong here's four more good
right arm goes down left arm follows
come back to the center abdominals in
and take it to a nice power breath up
and bring it halfway down good now turn
your left toes out let's do the warrior
pulse it's eight let's do that whole set
up on side two again feel that nice
posture shoulders over hips strong core
you're looking great and now hold it
down there side angle so forearm rest on
the thigh reach it up strong feel that
link you're really trying to touch the
ceiling here now keep that back leg
straight and reverse so the right leg is
straight the right arm is straight and
we reach up up up to the sky keeping the
left knee bent here's four more counts
windmill your arms to the left now so
let's start down right arm follows come
to the center pulled out a Domino leg
and power breath up its inhale up hold
it halfway now let's turn the right toe
out and let's do it that warrior puff
just four of them and three two hold it
here
side angle and stretch good so we're
gonna get into the flow of this movement
here a nice rhythm take it to that
reverse stretch it up big and tall all
about our crunch hard core is here
windmill it to the right bring your arms
Center squeeze that belly in big inhale
in
halfway turn that lip go out and go it's
four three two hold it here side angle
and stretch long and tall and pulled in
so strong take it back to the reverse
all the way up four counts and three
Windell those arms down to the left come
back to the center big inhale it
beautiful turn the right toes out and
again we take it here's four three two
hold it here side angle and stretch good
feeling invigorated take it to the
reverse all the way up
windmill those arms to the right bring
that body Center power breath here
halfway down with those arms and go its
warrior pulse three two hold it here
side angle and stretch good so feel the
flow feel the groove you're looking
great
take it to that reverse windmill those
arms down come Center power breath in
one more time through right toes out and
it's pulse three two hold it here side
angle and stretch reverse it all the way
up make it the fast make it the
strongest you're ambitious today we're
energizing your body windmill those arms
down bring your body Center big inhale
in here halfway down turn the left toes
last set come on here's four and three
two hold it here and side angle reach
crisp and strong reverse that warrior
Windell to the left bring that body
center take a nice big inhale here
now let's power breathe down and up here
we go it's been and reach like you're
tracing the full moon with those arms be
strong reach it out feel your abdominals
pull in lengthen tall beautiful four and
lift three who keep breathing last one
good job guys now hands on your thighs
flat back down it's flat black and now
round it up pull that belly in good
think about stretching your spine long
and now squeezing your belly in two more
times long strings back squeeze your
belly in and round that spine one more
time take it down take it all the way up
ran or do you guys now from here on out
keep your eye on Marnie
she'll be modifying a lot of the
exercises today so if you're new to the
program or you want to take a little
less challenging route she's the one to
keep your eye on so we begin this series
with the triangle posture I want you to
turn your right toes out your left toe
is parallel and you have two straight
strong legs and you've got again that
strong hard core take your arms out your
shoulders are low and just tilt your
body into the triangle right here so
drop down and just get used to this
posture we're gonna return to it more
feel the length of your hand and just
feel the lift out from your body
beautiful now take it up and lunge into
that warrior again beautiful nice crisp
precise motion twist over to the right
reach your arms up hold it here reaching
lengthening beautiful now arms down
twist Center and straighten it out good
so we're gonna do that a few more times
a little bit more up-tempo and a lot of
flow so two straight legs
here we go triangle for four and three
reach and lift
for good shoulders are low now crisp is
strong pulling that core twist to the
right
it's twist to reach up to hold it here
good don't take those arms down twist
back to the center straighten that leg
good take it to the triangle drop it
down reaching your arms up and lunge it
pressing it down Chris strong motion
looking good twist it to the right
it's twist two three two really go for
you guys take those arms down now and
pure twist back and straighten that knee
one last time triangle two straight legs
reaching up uncle lunge whew keep
breathing looking good take it to the
side so we twist to reach to hold it
here lengthening tall and now drop the
arms down come back to the center and
straighten it out now my favorite the
zigzag slowly raised to the right now
slowly reach to the floor to the right
you got it this is such a great one for
the whole core every muscle fiber gets
stronger here so here we go faster work
it in up down down
scoop that belly everything's pulling in
press it in come on four more after each
hello last two right here
reach it up take it down beautiful now a
big power strong breath here we go
inhale up and hold those arms halfway
turn your left toes out parallel with
your right foot to straight legs let's
go into the triangle to the left so just
tilt your body and reach up your hands
placed on the middle of your shin and
you're lengthening through the core
abdominal is always strong great now up
in lunge and hold it here neck is long
we've got that nice knee bend twist open
to the side reach your arms up hold it
here stretching tall good now drop the
arms and purely TWiT Center straighten
the knees up good let's do that up-tempo
remember the ribcage is lifted the core
is pulled in here we go triangle
take it down four four three two up and
lunge
good you got it a nice torso twist to
the left
twist it to arm stretch up to the sky
good and now drop your arms down twist
back Center straight many looks great
do it again triangle posture 4 3 2 up
and lunge
you got it crisp strong motion and twist
to the side abdominal Zen twist to reach
- hold it here lengthening out beautiful
take those arms back down another twist
and straighten we've got one more time
and we're there here we go triangle it's
4 3 2 up in lunges zip that knee down
shoulders are right on top of the hips
good now if your twist to the side arms
up reach extending good take those arms
down twist back to the center straighten
it up now again my favorite this exact
reach it up to the left slowly take it
down slowly scoop that belly good we
want those nice strong hard core reach
and reach now the same thing faster here
we go we take it up up down down keep
breathing go for it touch the sky scoop
down to the floor
go for it reach reach and lower
invigorating that body last to reach and
lower last one
beautiful big inhale power breath all
the way up open those arms halfway good
now turn your right toes out and
triangle to the right once again
reaching the arms up now we're gonna
turn this in here bending your knees for
your left hand down and step back into
the plank with me or bring it to your
knees with Marty abdominals are in now
knee cross punch slowly take your right
knee across and left knee going down
eight up-tempo I know these are tough
here we go it's eight you can do it
seven six just four more crunch that
belly three more two beautiful now sit
back in child's pose
or press it up to down dog this is a
nice stretch here breathing calmly and
now let's all join Marnie in Child's
Pose bring it all the way back and take
a nice breather good so we're gonna
begin this series with the willow it's
an awesome awesome core strengthener so
be sure to keep your abdominal pulled in
and keep the movement under control
here we go elbows with the ears lift up
ah now open back reach up to the sky and
gently fold forward good again lift up
open out reach it up tall and fold it
back down good now control
feel the breath feel the motion fluid
good one more time
and open reach up and down good now keep
your forms on the mat walk your feet out
into the dolphin float Marni's gonna be
modifying this by having her knees bent
just always an option for you this is a
really challenging ab exercise cuz grab
these working against you
you've got to pull your abs in and off
all on your own so feel that sense of
Center feel those hips in line with your
spine you're looking good hold it for
three more counts go ahead and drop it
back into child's pose
let's take willow again here we go take
it up it's up and open reaching up
dropping down now the beauty of this is
that we're strengthening and stretching
at the same time and we've got beautiful
range of motion so here we go lift we're
gonna look great so sources are gonna be
buff one more time here we go reach it
up it's lift open back reach it tall
good and walk it out to dolphin arms
down walk your feet back squeeze your
belly in and up holding the dolphin flow
hovering over the floor for three more
cows and two
nice bend it into Child's Pose here we
go again willow take it off and open
reach up fold forward
kind of keep the heels and the hips
together it's okay if your hips lift up
a little bit but over time you're going
to find them staying a little bit closer
because you've got that much more
strength in your core lift awesome do it
one more time lift it up open out reach
it up and drop it down to your forearms
walk it back out to the dolphin pull
your abdominals in and squeeze squeeze
squeeze we're getting so much done at
once with this multitasking at its best
but drop the knees Child's Pose
one more round here we go it's up and
open reach bum and down lift it up open
out reach up looking good
two more times let
keep breathing last one lift ma open
nice everybody dolphin slow walk those
feet back warm not dolphin see you're
hovering off the floor now in this last
set this is where we might get a little
tired so bend your knees if you need to
you got it great now bring yourself to
your hands and knees into a tabletop
spine good so we're working hard you
hang in there keep your belly strong
let's stretch it out
dropping the tailbone dropping the head
into the cat stretch here we go exhale
and round down nice stretch for the
spine and then come to tabletop flat
back good do it again take it all the
way up and tract and round and come to
flat back
tabletop nice down opposite arm opposite
leg is the very challenging exercise but
it's so worth it because the benefits
are amazing Marnie's going to modify
this by keeping both hands flat on the
floor so that's your choice if you can
reach your right arm out your left leg
long hold it there for a moment
feel how your cores pulling in and up
your legs are straight your arm is
reaching please those toes find your
sense of balance and here we go take it
up and down here we go it's up down
stretch
no focus and concentrate on that sense
of center there's a lot of a balance
challenge here so do your best
good take it out to the side whoo keep
breathing good challenging balance
working the glutes lengthening the legs
we're looking long and tall and lean and
pulled in beautiful good now alternate
one front one side here we go it's front
and side it's up down reach good last
four and three and two Bravo bring it to
all fours
and cat stretch up release that back for
a second and now flat back and again
round it up cat stretch tailbone tucks
under good and flat back great now if
you felt yourself a little wobbly on
that side one make sure your weights
more on the inner side of your face meet
it'll help you stay more stable now the
same thing but reach your right leg out
your left arm out bellies in here we go
we lift up and down take it up down nice
abdominals are in reaching and extending
we're going up we're squeezing our whole
backside amazing take it out to the side
you guys to the angle just a little bit
a little bit goes a long way here feel
that hole to charge up the back of your
body whoo here's four three point the
toe and now alternated here we go we're
reaching it front
side up down up down just four more
three more two and one great job nice
job
sit back in child's pose take a little
break you've earned it relax and breathe
calmly so now bring yourself out onto
the floor resting comfortably on your
belly place your hands underneath your
shoulders and make sure they feel even
in balance with your palms flat to the
earth they're gonna stay here for the
full series now to begin press your hips
into the ground lift your legs up point
your toes and turn your toes out now
this is called the leg beat we're gonna
really squeeze those heels towards each
other I want you to feel the lift up and
out here we go go it's sixty press
squeeze squeeze beautiful this is a
great one for those glutes here's eight
seven six five good now as the legs go
down lift your upper body here we go
it's inhale and exhale now this is a
beautiful back extension it looks the
upper back but I want you to really feel
he lifts the upper body and it really
lets the breath in turn good now push
yourself up like a push up on your knees
sit back on your heels lengthen out and
drop down good do that again this whole
thing is called a little piece of heaven
it's because the spine should stay
unbroken in one piece so keep your belly
pushing in and up
bent around or arch your back lift good
one more time
push-up hinge back make it out and
control yourself on the way down
beautiful stay here now press those hips
again into the ground and lift your legs
up point your toes turn them out and
here we go for 16 it's press press reach
reach good feeling that boots do one
more set reach it out press press reach
good keep breathing nice now legs go
down upper body lifts up lower inhale
exhale lift and lower one more time
beautiful little piece of heaven use
those triceps push it up hinge it back
lengthen long drop it down so the beauty
of this exercise is that we're working
everything the tricep and the whole
entire core and then we're stretching
the lower back so it feels good so keep
that nice neutral this nice movement and
let it flow with your friend good one
more push up pinch back lift up and
control on the way down good let's do
that again
hips into the earth legs lengthen up
toes turn out ready here we go and 16
press press squeeze feel the energy out
your toes really reach it here's eight
more seven six five beautiful now drop
the leg with your upper body
exhale lift lower two more
one more let's finish up to the little
piece of heaven we lengthen out control
on the way down
good push up hinge back lengthen out and
down good so you should definitely be
feeling your triceps by now the control
has made you really working one more
time push it up hinge it back lengthen
out and lower down
wait one more round press those hips in
lengthen the legs up point the toes turn
the toes out here we go the best one yet
it's sixteen fifteen reach and extend
you can do it we are almost there eight
more right here eight seven six five
four three beautiful back extension we
lower try to use your arms at all and
lower inhale exhale let that breath help
you little piece of EV and we pushed up
hinge back lengthen out and control on
the way down good so we're getting the
tricep on the way up on the way down
it's very efficient we're getting a lot
done in this motion every single moment
we're getting something done press it
back lengthen out lower down
last one push up
hand back lengthen out and lower down
then rest great now bring your hands
underneath your chin and rest your chin
on those hands you want your neck to be
loose and relaxed extend your right leg
up hold it there for a moment and point
your toe the Pilates leg circles are
small and concise so circle to the right
it's up and around up and around knees
stay straight toe stays pointed and
extend feel like you're pulling your leg
out from the hip really reaching good
now go the other direction it's a raft
good nice relaxed neck feel those glutes
feel the hamstrings feel the leg getting
longer three more two now right into the
other side lift and go towards the front
it's up and around and reach point the
toes are rated for more it's around and
around lift and the other direction go
circle and reach like you're tracing a
beautiful petite circle
four more it's four and three and two
reach it out and one great now curl your
toes under we've been pointing our feet
a lot so it should feel good to curl
them under now push yourself all the way
up and sit back in child's pose with
your toes under
it's an awesome stretch for your feet
and just relax here you deserve this
nice little break great job keep staying
strong let's roll it all the way up and
swing the feet all the way over to the
right and come to a nice side lying
position rest your head in your hand and
straighten both legs hips are stacked
now to begin take your top hand and
place it in front of you this is gonna
be a really important movement holding
it here is gonna help your balance a lot
and we will have the option of taking it
away later now lift both legs up point
your toes lift the top leg slightly
strong for the core here we go pressing
the top leg down every time it's
pressing eight and seven good you got
shoes root legs your core is doing a lot
of this work so keep it super strong and
pulling it good now the bottom leg comes
up it's up and down beautiful - really
strong straight legs good now here's
your option take away that top hand and
just do the top leg here we go it's
eight good - that whole series again
without the extra support of your arm so
your core is working a lot harder
beautiful awesome and now the bottom leg
up and down go eight
7:6 keep the abdominal strong you're
looking good here's for good now drop
both legs and take it to a side passe so
we've been extend flex the foot and now
draw to the front good bend extend flex
to the back now faster take it up and
down good no be dramatic make it big
feel the stretch on the way down and
feel the squeeze in the inner thigh nice
we've got four more lift and press lift
press last two squeeze and strong last
one great now hold it there beautiful
now bend your bottom feet and prop
yourself up your left hand is right
reach your shoulder and abdominals
strong Marnie's gonna modify this by
keeping her hips on the floor extend
your top leg long
the first one is slow it's the side Bend
twist the core has to be strong and the
shoulder can't move around too much so
let's try it slowly
we inhale take it all the way up exhale
fold and
inhale come back to the center and now
drop it all the way down beautiful just
four of them faster here we go we reach
it up exhale forward reach drop it down
good
really extend make it strong two more
it's lift and twist lift one more looks
great lift and twist and lift and drop
it down great job
come around to the center sit on the
front edge of your mat and place your
forearms down on the mat behind you make
sure your back doesn't sink keep the
knees up and glue the knees together
we're gonna begin the knee drop
progression so drop it to the right
drop it to the left go ahead now keep
your torso purely Center we're gonna
progress this to another level so here
we go extend your left leg to the right
beautiful right leg extends to the left
stretch great so again the longer you
make that leg the harder you're working
nice now Marni is gonna stay at this
level we have one more level to go to
but feel free to stay with Marti here
this is a really challenging exercise
good so here we go two straight legs now
so it's reach up up and then stretch it
long you got it
extend and stretch extend awesome so
your core is working so hard right now
and it's stretching and strengthening
and pulling in lift and lower last one
great everybody great so cross your
ankles and fit your body forward and
it's released gently
nice easy release for the lower back
good so walk yourself up and let's go on
to side two to bring your legs to your
left
prop your head in your hand stack your
hips
Tom hands in front lift both legs feel
that strong core and now the top leg up
and down here we go it's eight and
squeeze press beautiful so feel your
sense of Center feel that balance
stretch those legs long
bottom leg up it's squeeze and press
lift keep breathing now here's our
oxygen take away that top and work that
balance and the top leg here we go for
eight seven six keep breathing you got
it you're doing so great
bottom leg up and down every time it's
up down up down squeeze just four more
keep breathing it lifts
and left break now right into the side
packs a slowly so we take the left knee
in and up flex the foot and slide it to
the front push it down beautiful lift be
dramatic really work that motion take it
faster it's up up and down lift and
lower stretching through the hip press
that heel to the floor keep breathing
four more our legs are super long and
stretch it three more and stretch to
correct
last one beautiful and hold it great
alright bend your bottom knee press
yourself up we're gonna do that twist
side bend so take your right hand down
right or raise your shoulder and let's
do one slowly so here we go
take it up lifting up exhale and folding
hips stay square come all the way back
up and then drop it all the way back
down now up tempo just four here we go
it's reach and fold reach and open so
what's not moving which is those kids
need to stay still and that's the
challenge here you're doing great
keep it going we only have one more to
go
reach it up its reach and pull and reach
and drop great all right turn yourself
back to the center let's go to that knee
drop progression again so down on your
forearms knees come in glue those knees
tightly no sinking in your back let's
drop it to the left it's left and center
right and center good
now progression all the way in extend
that top leg long right here it's reach
and squeeze so really try to extend as
far as you can we'll get a nice length
through the outer thigh stretching
through the oblique four more right here
it's four and Center three and Center -
great so here we go both legs straight
or stay with Marty your call it's up up
bend and reach ah then reach lift and
lower lift lower great
nice just three more stretch at all
tap it wide last one reach and hold it
here nice job cross the ankles come all
the way up and just stretch your body
forward for a gentle release in your
back you did great that was a very tough
series take a nice calm breath here
so pull that a down the lid and walk
your body out nice and tall
good bring your legs to the right plant
them parallel make sure your knees stay
parallel as well grab on to your
hamstrings and let's begin with a nice
toss right back shoulders are down we
want to round the back in this series
without shrugging the shoulders so
that's their focus so here we go take it
down nice and calm one two three now
kick it up and return to that tall back
beautiful
so the ABS are working a lot harder you
look like here squeeze it up and again
roll it down it's down two three
take it up good now Marnie's gonna stay
with this and the rest of us are gonna
progress to a full teaser so release
your arms or stay with Marnie we go down
reach up exhale squeeze in and reach up
good this is where you really want to
make sure your knees don't flare out
crunch that abdominal beautiful so roll
down
and reach so right now we're pulling in
abdominals we're stretching and
strengthening our whole spine and then
we're reaching tall the top so much
going on it's great reach lift
good nice and calm nice and control roll
down and reach last one you're doing
great
take it down reach it up good now stay
here at the top and just roll halfway
down now pull the elbows together
squeeze yeah so you're feeling that
upper back squeeze it's a great one for
getting the shoulders to pull back
having a nice strong upper back and
opening that chest and squeeze beautiful
here's four more pull strong feel like
you're holding a crisp dollar bill right
between your shoulder blades last to
pull last one nice grab onto the
hamstrings and roll it back down flat on
your back and bring those knees into the
chest
nice everybody take a moment to wiggle
your toes and just shake your head side
to side releasing any tension in the
neck we're gonna begin here with a
single leg stretch so now lift your head
and shoulders up crunch your abdominals
keep your right knee in extend your left
leg out point your toes left hand on top
make it crisp and strong crunch those
abdominals here we go it's 16 reach
press extend good abdominals are engaged
here is eight more six four three two
and Rast nice shake again side to side
and wiggle those toes now take your
hands behind your head and drop your
knees to the right
reach your left arm up and let's climb
that invisible rope slowly we pull and
release good so as your torso lifts your
elbow pulls in good really squeeze that
waistline tighten that oblique and now
take it up tempo for a nice and strong
it's a reach seven keep breathing keep
squeezing just four more three more and
one and rest good both hands back behind
the head bring the knees up and over to
the left
good now reach your right arm up and
prepare for that climbing the rope
really tie in that abdominal here we go
we crunch it's four roly's take it slow
squeeze release keep breathing make it
the best you can and now take it up
tempo here we go it's a squeeze seven
you got it quality over quantity here
every rep counts here's four three two
and rest beautiful drop your hands back
behind the head bring your knees back to
Center now lengthen your legs straight
up we're gonna finish off our ab
exercises here with the ballerina
criss-cross so I want you to lift your
head and shoulders up off the floor and
notice how already your core is very
much engaged place your toe knees are
straight
Marni's gonna stay here at the top with
the crisscross and that's the
modification so here we go right over
left it's right left beautiful really
reach keep the shoulder blades off the
ground one more set it's eight seven six
five beautiful now drop it down ten
degrees if you want to eight seven six
beautiful and drop those legs one more
time good
now we're gonna stay here for 16 more
counts you can do it come on here's 16
teen cross cross stretch press if you're
getting tired for your legs up with
Marty you got it just four more
good release and drop it down beautiful
wiggle those toes
shake your head side to side cross those
ankles and just roll yourself up to
stand beautiful job
bring your legs Center and tall sky pick
a nice inhale up and bring your arms
halfway now your neck is long your back
is tall let's begin with a nice easy
ballet like movement with that right arm
reach it all the way up brush the
ceiling so we were reach open it around
round forward and do it again so your
spine is moving very subtly very soft
but majorly under control I can reach it
and open round forward and out last time
reach up and open good now bring your
arms behind you interlace your fingers
lift your arms up and off your body and
just drop your right ear to your right
shoulder stretching the side of your
neck beautiful getting rid of any
tension let's go to the other side so
drop it over to the left good breathe
and calmly and come right back to the
center take a nice big inhale in hold it
halfway let's bring that left arm over
it's reached around round forward do it
again beautiful so reinforcing great
posture with these really around come
back up and reinforce beautiful posture
good shoulders over hips ears over the
shoulders and a nice lifted ribcage one
more time good take a nice power breath
in exhale and release it all the way
down you did great keep breathing big
keep staying tall lifted and feel strong
and pulled it in your core you are now
an official crunch superstar thanks for
joining us we'll see you next time
you